🏦 Bank Customer Churn Streamlit App

Executive AI Command Center for Predictive Customer Churn Analysis

This Streamlit app provides real-time insights into customer churn risk, enabling individual AI assessments, batch analysis, and what-if simulations to plan retention campaigns. The app is designed for business users, data analysts, and portfolio managers.

1️⃣ App Overview

Purpose:

Predict customer churn using a production-ready Random Forest model.

Provide a clear AI verdict per customer (Stay / Likely Stay / Likely Leave / Highly Leave).

Enable strategic decision-making via filters, ROI simulations, and risk dashboards.

Export individual or batch profiles for reporting or further analysis.

Who it’s for:

Bank executives, analysts, and retention teams.

Streamlined for non-technical users, with a guided UI.

Data Requirements:

Either use the built-in internal dataset (data/processed/Bank_Churn_Final_With_NumericClusters.csv) or upload a CSV with the required columns.

A template CSV is available in the sidebar.

2️⃣ Dashboard Modes

🏠 Internal Database Mode

Uses the pre-loaded processed dataset.

Allows full filtering and reporting for the entire portfolio.

📤 Client Upload Mode

Users can upload their own CSV.

Must include columns:

CustomerId, Surname, CreditScore, Geography, Gender, Age, Tenure, Balance, 
NumOfProducts, HasCrCard, IsActiveMember, EstimatedSalary


A template CSV is provided to guide formatting.

3️⃣ Filters & Global Portfolio Search

Geography: Multi-select by country.

Age Range: Slider for min/max age.

Balance Range: Slider for account balance in USD.

AI Risk Verdict: Multi-select to filter by predicted churn category.

Effect: All metrics, KPIs, and simulation results update automatically based on selected filters.

4️⃣ Top KPIs

Displayed at the top of the dashboard:

💰 Exposure: Total balance at risk for filtered portfolio.

📉 Risk Avg: Average predicted churn probability.

🚨 Critical Alerts: Number of high-risk customers (Prob ≥ threshold).

🤖 AI Health: Simple progress bar indicating AI model readiness.

5️⃣ Single Customer AI Assessment

Predict churn for one customer at a time.

Inputs: Age, Tenure, Credit Score, Balance, Num of Products, Gender, Active Status, Credit Card, Estimated Salary.

Outputs:

AI Verdict (Stay / Likely Stay / Likely Leave / Highly Leave)

Churn Probability

Feature Table showing all columns including engineered features (ProductPerYear, balance_to_income, income_v_product)

Export: CSV of the individual profile.

Do’s & Don’ts:

✅ Ensure all fields are filled correctly.

✅ Use realistic numeric ranges for reliable predictions.

❌ Avoid empty numeric fields.

❌ Non-standard column names in uploaded CSV can cause errors.

6️⃣ What-If Simulation & Retention ROI

Filter target segments by Age, Balance, and Campaign Cost.

Simulate retention campaigns with adjustable effectiveness.

Outputs:

Potential Capital Saved

Total Campaign Cost

ROI of targeted interventions

Graph: Risk Distribution of targeted customers.

Export: Financial simulation report as CSV.

7️⃣ AI Brain Health & Interpretability

Feature Impact Analysis: Bar chart of Random Forest feature importance.

Probability Distribution: Histogram of churn probabilities for the filtered portfolio.

Exports:

Model logic CSV (feature importance)

Full batch report CSV (filtered dataset with predictions)

8️⃣ Export Options
Section	File Exported	Description
Single Customer Assessment	individual_assessment.csv	Full customer profile with predictions
ROI Simulation	roi_simulation_report.csv	Target segment financial analysis
Feature Importance	ai_model_logic.csv	Model feature importance for interpretability
Batch Portfolio Report	master_churn_report.csv	Full filtered portfolio with AI verdicts
9️⃣ Dashboard Design Story

Executive clarity: KPIs at the top, filters on the left.

Expandable sections let users focus on individual or portfolio analysis.

Charts highlight risk distribution and model transparency.

Export buttons ensure data is ready for reporting or presentations.

🔟 Getting Started

Clone the repo and install dependencies:

pip install -r requirements.txt


Run the Streamlit app:

streamlit run app.py


Use the sidebar to select mode and download the CSV template if needed.

Explore KPIs, filters, individual assessment, and simulations.

Export reports as needed.

✅ Key Notes

Check uploaded CSV for column consistency.

Use realistic values for single customer assessment for accurate AI verdicts.

KPI values and charts dynamically reflect selected filters.

Model: Random Forest classifier with engineered features for actionable insights.